[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, it's James here, and
today we have an extra special
guest.
Her name is Koya Webb.
And she has gone from
an upbringing to a life
that she would probably never
have imagined in her childhood.
She is now a plant-based and
yogic warrior goddess, showing
people the tools,
tricks, and tips
it takes to transform
your life and keep
that momentum and high energy.
Her story is unbelievable,
and I can't wait
to share it with you today.
Koya, hello.
>> Hello.
>> So tell me where
are you're from,
and what was it like growing
up in the Koya Webb household?
>> I'm from Humboldt, Tennessee.
And growing up, we
didn't have much.
I grew up on powdered
milk and the Helping Hand.
Grew up in a trailer.
My mom and dad, four
kids, so six people total.
And it was not a double wide.
It was one of the
smallest trailers.
I remember as kids just climbing
the walls, and trying to calm--
and we were rambunctious.
We were just really
tearing things up,
and my mom had to
kick us outside.
Once the sun came up,
we were kicked outside,
because we would wreck
the house otherwise.
And I just grew
up in the country,
so that was a good thing.
But I was also
separated from the city.
And I always felt like
a little bit left out,
a little bit different,
because we didn't have much.
And the kids would
make fun of me,
and my clothes, and being
skinny, and just everything.
It was very much bullied
a lot at a young age.
And I didn't know what to
do, so I turned to sports.
And at first, I tried to
try out for cheerleading.
Didn't make the team.
I got so nervous, I was,
like, [HYPERVENTILATING]
hyperventilating,
because really, I wasn't
used to being around people.
I wasn't used to performing.
All I knew was I wanted
to get out of the country.
I wanted to be a
part of the in-crowd.
I didn't want to be
like the country girl
with the Helping Hand clothes,
and hair was always messed up.
And didn't make that.
I tried out for basketball.
I was so clumsy.
I had a growth spurt,
and I was just clumsy.
I couldn't keep the ball.
I remember trying to dribble.
I couldn't dribble.
Didn't make the basketball team.
So going to high school, I
had no athletic experience,
no nothing.
And I made a
commitment to myself.
I was like, I will practice
as much as I need to,
but I want to be a part.
I don't want to be left out.
And so I remember thinking
that, like, what can I do?
Who do I have to be?
Because as I was, I
didn't feel accepted.
I didn't feel loved.
And so I started to run.
And I said, I know.
I can get on the track team,
because I would run and catch
the bus, and I'd always get
close to beating my brothers,
and I was really fast.
So didn't make the
cheerleading team.
Didn't make the basketball.
So I went out for
track and field,
and I made the track
and field team.
Because who doesn't make
the track and field?
[LAUGHS] As long as you
can run around the track,
you can get on it.
But anyway, I felt
good about it.
I was like, I'm on a team.
I'm part of society.
And I don't think
people understand
how much if you
live in the country
and you're not a
city kid growing up,
you are really left out.
And I know a lot of people
who've grown up being bullied,
you know how detrimental
it can be as a child
growing up different, or
growing up as outcasts.
So I had the
experience growing up.
And my mom and dad did
the best they could,
but when I was younger,
I really wasn't
a part about any kind of
music, any kind of sport,
any part of anything.
So feeling that way, it made me
become a loner unintentionally.
And so when I started getting
on a track and field team,
and getting these accolades,
and getting faster and faster,
I found my sense of purpose.
It was like, oh, I'm important
because I can run fast.
And people are nice
to me, are kind to me.
My mom and dad cheer for me.
And so that was my first
feeling of being accepted,
is when I started to run
track and field and do well.
Well, after that
year, I was like,
now maybe I can try the
basketball team again.
And I went out, and I
didn't make it again.
And my coach at the time,
he was like, oh, man,
if they only knew how much
of an athlete you were.
And my first year of
running track and field,
I made it to the state meet.
I ran on the four-by-one relay.
And I was just a
hard worker for sure.
And my coach was
like, you know what?
Let me go talk to
the basketball coach,
and I'll see if I can
get you on the team.
And so I was listening to
my coach, my track coach,
talk to the basketball coach.
And he was like,
you know, just--
she'll be great.
Even if she has
to ride the bench,
she can play good
defense, and she
can run up and down the court.
Just give her a chance.
And so reluctantly, the
basketball coach is like,
all right, you
know, hey, you know.
They had a losing season anyway,
so what could they lose, right?
And I think my coach
reminded him of that.
He's like, yeah,
you know, the team
could probably do
a little better
with a little bit of energy.
And she's a good kid.
She's a good kid.
I remember him saying that, and
I was like, oh, that's nice.
And believe it or
not, my parents
weren't really that
affectionate, so
I never really--
until I became an adult and
put that into our lifestyle,
it really wasn't a lot
of hugs, and good jobs.
And my mom taught us a lot--
we learned a lot, but I think
because my dad was working
a lot, it was just not--
just the way we grew up.
And so when I would
hear little things,
they would mean the most to me.
And plus, I was also
a very sensitive kid.
Which I didn't find
out until later,
but I realized that a lot of
the things that I experienced
were because of
my sensitivities.
And I learned that me
wanting to be accepted
and wanting to be
loved-- of course I was,
but I didn't feel it,
because I didn't feel
like I was part of the team.
So anyway, I got on
the basketball team.
I was so excited.
So here I am, track
and field, basketball.
And the entire first
year, I rode the bench.
And I remember we
had a losing season.
We didn't win one game.
So here I was,
athletic, energetic,
excited to be on the
team, but couldn't even
play on a losing team.
And so I remember we had two
games left in the season.
And I was like, if she could
just let me play one time,
I could show her what I have,
I could show her my skills,
and things like that.
So finally, after
being nervous--
I'd been practicing
in my basement,
dribbling around a pole,
getting my right-hand skills--
I could only dribble with
my right hand, by the way,
but I could dribble really
well with my right hand.
And I played great defense.
Lots of rebounds.
I was great in
practice, but I just
never got to play because
I was kind of like the girl
the coach let on the team.
So I was like, I
build up my courage.
I was like, OK, I'm going to
ask coach, can she let me in?
And so we were losing, and it
was about four minutes left,
and I was like, can I just play?
Can I just touch the ball?
And she was just like,
looking at me like, no.
And then I was just like,
please, just four minutes.
I would really appreciate it.
She's like, all right, Koya.
And so I just was like--
I was so excited.
So I got in the game.
I was like, I'm going to-- and
I had dreamed of this moment
so many times.
I was like, I'm going to
grab that ball off the rim.
I'm going to dribble to
the other end of the court.
And I'm going to just
lay it up-- of course
I want to dunk it,
but I couldn't dunk.
So I was like, I'm going
to lay it up really nice
like I've done in
practice so many times.
So once I got in
there, I knew it.
I was going to rebound.
I was going to box
out and get that ball.
So I did it.
I got in the game.
I rebound the ball, and I
got it, and I protected it.
I dribbled all the
way down the court,
and I shot it in the goal.
And I was waiting to
hear these yelling,
and everyone was like, oh!
And it was like, what happened?
I shot at the wrong goal.
I had no idea.
And it was like,
wait a minute, this
is not the way this
was supposed to go!
It was so terrible,
and I was like, no!
And the coach is like,
Koya, get over here!
And I was like, oh, God.
I was mortified.
And I was just like,
man, God, I'm never
going to get to play again.
I might as well just quit.
Felt bad.
So I got pulled out of the game,
and that was my glory moment,
and I was like, for sure never
going to get to play again.
And then that game got over.
The last game.
I knew I had messed up,
but I had to redeem myself.
So again, I did
great in practice.
I made points.
I did well.
I was actually a better
player than the person
that I was going in
for, and I knew that,
but I wasn't getting
the opportunity
to shine when the
pressure was on.
So that's why, when
the pressure was on,
I totally shot at
the wrong goal.
I was so excited.
So I was like, OK, I'm
not going to do that.
I was like, that goal's
mine, that goal's theirs.
And I kept up the
whole game, made
sure I knew which goal was ours.
And then so finally,
at the end, I
was just like-- there's
four more minutes.
I was waiting under the clock.
I was like, OK, I'm
going to ask again.
She's got to have some
compassion, right?
I was like, OK, I'm so sorry
about what happened last time.
Just give me one more chance.
I promise I know this goal's
ours, that goal's theirs.
I got it.
We're losing again-- of course.
We're always losing.
We're going to lose, so just
let me just touch the ball.
That'd be great.
She's like, go ahead.
You know?
I was like, yes!
I get in.
We're losing.
I don't care.
I'm just excited
about getting a chance
to play with my teammates.
I made a good pass.
I made an assist.
And my teammates shot, and
I was like, OK, perfect.
All right, so I got this down.
Rebound the ball.
You know what you're
going to do with it.
So long story short,
I scored a point.
And I was like-- that
was like the best moment.
I was like-- because the girl
that played my entire position
in front of me, she
would play the whole game
and she wouldn't score, so I
was like, if I could at least
score, I'll be excited.
So I scored a point.
And that was like, ah!
I felt like I was Michael
Jordan or someone.
So I was happy about it.
And the season was over.
The game was over.
I scored a point.
And so the next
year, I was like,
I'm going to practice
as hard as I can,
and I'm going to do well.
I'm going to start.
That was my goal going
into my junior year.
So I didn't play
my freshman year.
Got on the team, rode the
bench my sophomore year.
So my junior year, I was
like, I'm going to play.
So long story short,
our coach got fired
and a new coach got let
in, and after summer,
me being such a great athlete,
and playing, and being a team
player, I got to start.
I started my junior
year after riding
bench my entire sophomore year.
And after the entire
year, I got most improved.
And I was just like, oh my
goodness, I can't believe this.
This is a dream come true.
Of course, the girl that I came
in for wasn't happy about it,
but still, I was
just so excited.
And they graduated.
So I was like, I
know now I'm going
to get a good chance to
play the entire season.
So my senior year,
I was like, I'm
going to do everything I can to
make us have a winning season.
And we had a winning
season my senior year.
I end up getting most
rebounds, most points,
and MVP my senior year.
So I was like, yeah!
And I felt so much
like, you know
what, that's what it takes.
If you don't give
up, and something--
one quote that I always remember
was that you cannot fail unless
you stop trying.
And I knew then that if
I just kept working hard,
kept being a team player,
and just did everything
that I could to learn the
game, learn my opponent,
and learn how to work together
with my team, we would do well.
And I feel like not
just trying to be--
I didn't go out
trying to be the MVP.
I went out trying to
just start on the team,
and try to be a
team player, and it
resulted in all those things.
And so I was so grateful.
I was so happy.
And that made me
realize how important it
is, not only to
be a team player,
but also to never ever give up.
And that quote is still
one of my favorites.
You never fail unless
you stop trying.
>> Beautiful.
So good.
What was it like, the
food and the nourishment
in the Koya Webb household
growing up as a kid?
You explained that to me before.
It was a lot different
than how you eat today.
What was it like sitting around
to dinner with your family?
>> Well, for me, when I was a
young girl living in a trailer
before I was seven, I
remember powdered milk.
I remember just not having
many options for food.
So when, eventually, my dad
got a better job, and my mom--
who's a stay-at-home mom--
we were able to have
home-cooked meals.
So having a piece of meat,
bread, vegetables was great.
Having snack cakes when we
couldn't afford it before
was amazing.
So having Twinkies,
and oatmeal pies.
And eventually, we discovered
Hamburger Helper, and Tuna
Helper, and all these things.
And being able to
cook for my family
was really important for me.
I had no idea of all the
toxins, and chemicals,
and things that
were in the food.
All I knew is that food is love.
And when I feed people, they
smile, and they're happy,
and it means love.
And so not knowing these
things growing up--
and when I found out
about these things,
I was like, oh my
goodness, do you
know that our favorite
Jiffy cornbread has
high fructose corn
syrup in it, or MSG?
And I remember the
first time I found out
about all these chemicals
and preservatives,
I was like, I ran
to the grocery store
to see how many of the things
that I love contained it.
Every single thing that
I loved that was in a box
contained either high
fructose corn syrup, MSG,
or some artificial
flavoring or coloring.
So unfortunately, growing
up in what I felt like
was pretty much a lot
of home-cooked meals.
My mom really-- and I think
that's why I was healthier.
I wasn't sick growing up.
But I did have a lot
of mucus in my system,
and then once a
year, I'd break out
in a nasty rash over my face.
I would have chronic
yeast infection
as I got more mature
as a girl, and that
was because of drinking out of
plastic, all the chemicals, all
the preservatives
and things like that.
All the processed food.
We thought, hey, if it's
seasoned and it tastes good,
it's great.
So even though we would
have the home-cooked,
we'd also have a lot of
preserved foods, TV dinners,
and things like that as
well, so that that balance
wasn't really healthy.
So I thank God at least half
of our meals were home-cooked,
but the other half was
actually very, very processed.
And we felt like, oh,
we can afford this now.
We can afford these
things, thinking
it was a good thing,
when actually,
it was actually a detriment.
What was good was actually
the home-cooked meals
that my mom used to
make when we first got
started and were able to
afford to have real food.
So it was really hard
growing up knowing
that when I finally got
what I thought was good,
we started to introduce too
much of the processed stuff.
And now that I know better, now
that I know all the chemicals
and preservatives in food, I'm
now focused on eating clean.
Eating more fruits
and vegetables.
Really focusing on food that is
as close to nature as possible.
And that's what's
really important.
>> You said before when
we spoke about how, often,
you'd have a lot of
canned vegetables,
and there wasn't a lot of
fresh vegetables available
in your area.
Could you speak to that?
Because I know that when
we think about food,
we don't really stop
to think that there
are a lot of places where it's
difficult to get vegetables.
>> Right.
There are a lot of
food deserts out there.
I mean, our main grocery
store was Piggly Wiggly,
so it was definitely fruits
and vegetables available.
But then, because we live
so far out in the country,
it was just like, of
course we will get canned
because they will last longer.
So we had a lot of canned food.
And we would get maybe
some Romaine lettuce,
but we had a lot of canned food,
like hot dogs, smoked sausages.
I remember all our greens, corn,
Pinto beans, things like that
were canned.
But we'd have some fresh too.
We'd have some fresh
beans, and we'd
have some things like celery
and cabbage, but not a lot.
Thinking like maybe one
fresh thing per meal,
but it wasn't even fresh.
It was cooked then.
But it was doing well
for what we thought.
At least one green vegetable,
a meal was really great.
>> So you continued to advance
your athletic career through
college, separate
to the basketball.
And that was one of
the impetus for you
coming out to California
to try out for the Olympics
and so forth, and you started
getting plagued by injury.
Tell me a little bit about
that part of your life.
>> Well, when I went
through college,
my first year I
gained 25 pounds.
And they say that freshman 15--
I gained 25 because I
was like, oh my goodness,
all this free food, being an
athlete, and I ate it all,
and I didn't understand
why I wasn't doing good.
Well, my coach explained
to me the laws of gravity
and how, when you
gain that much weight,
it's harder to get
over a high jump bar.
And so I learned
to balance my diet,
and I would train really hard.
So when I went to the new
school, Wichita State,
I was committed to working hard.
And what happened was,
sometimes we don't realize,
but I was training so hard, I
wasn't getting enough sleep.
I graduated with a 3.8,
but all those studies
left me not getting
enough sleep,
not getting enough
recovery time.
We were supposed to get in the
cold whirlpool, rehab our body,
go swimming, things
to counterbalance
all the things we were
doing on the track,
and I would skip
those things to study.
So I really wasn't
taking care of myself.
I wasn't practicing that
self-care that I really
needed to be a healthy athlete.
And so eventually, my junior
year-- my sophomore year,
I got a stress fracture
in my lower back.
And it was the most
devastating thing
that had happened
to me, because I
was slated to win the
conference the next year,
and all of a sudden, my
coach is like, I'm sorry.
You're out for the season.
And I'm just like--
it was just like, in shock.
I didn't believe it,
and I got really sad.
I was crying in
classes, and my teacher
sent me to the counselor.
And the counselor
was like, you know,
I think you should try yoga.
And at the time, I didn't
know what yoga was.
I just thought yoga
was voodoo, and it
was separate from Christianity,
and that I couldn't do it.
But she's like no,
it's just stretching.
I was like, OK, well,
I don't have a choice.
I got kicked out of class.
I gotta go do this
yoga stretching thing.
And so I went to class.
I remember trying
to do a headstand,
and I felt like my brain
was going to ooze out
the top of my skull.
It's just like, I am
not made for this.
This is painful.
And this is not me.
And I remember my teacher
seeing me struggle.
She came over to me,
and she looked at me.
She's like, I just
want you to breathe.
I took a big inhale with
her, and we exhaled together,
and for that moment,
I felt spirit.
I felt this feeling, this
tingling over my whole body,
and I hadn't felt it
since I was 12 years old.
And I remember thinking,
oh, this is the Holy Spirit.
I think I'm supposed
to give baptized now.
And that's when I got baptized.
And going through college, for
me, I lost that connection.
I was still a good
person, and I still
did good by people
and things like that,
but I didn't have
that daily connection
like I have now, which
was established when I got
injured in college.
And so I made that
connection, and eventually,
after a year of swimming,
and biking, and meditation,
and yoga, I came back to win
the conference meet in college,
and I led Wichita State to its
first women's championship.
So it came back to
like, in basketball,
I had that kind of comeback.
The same thing
happened in track,
and it was because of yoga.
And so of course, I
was like, yay, win!
So I moved to
California to train
in San Diego, which is close
to the Olympic Training Center,
because I was so close.
I was like, I'm so close.
I've only had one year.
If I could do all
of that in one year,
what can I do if I had a
really great coach and really
great training?
So I contacted Rahn Sheffield,
the San Diego State,
and I begged him.
He was like, who are you?
I was like, I'm Koya.
And he's like, I've
never heard of you.
I was like, I know,
but I promise you
I'll get better every single
day I step on the track.
And he was like,
well, I'm just going
to accept it, because you
really have a lot of courage
to just reach out to me.
I was like, OK, great.
So I flew myself to California.
I knew no one here.
No family or anything.
I was just determined
to follow my dreams.
And I came out here, and I did.
Every time I stepped
on the track,
I got better and
better and better.
But again, I wasn't
taking care of myself.
I became a personal
trainer at 24 Hour Fitness.
I was working from
5:00 AM to 10:00.
And then I would run track
from 11:00 to about 3:00,
and then I would go back and
work from 5:00 to 10:00 again.
I had a full list of clients,
getting great results
with them, but I was
getting very little
sleep, and of course,
very little recovery.
So what happens?
Injured again.
This time I pulled my hamstring.
So I was like, ugh.
And then going through
also frustrations
of a big breakup
that happened when
I moved from Kansas
to California
was really hard
emotionally on me as well.
So all those things unprocessed
takes a toll on your body.
So here I am, injured again.
And so where do I turn?
Yoga, meditation.
This time, it healed me again.
And this time, I was
like, you know what?
There's something to this.
This is amazing.
And it was like, you know what,
I can't let this go again.
I need to commit to
this as a lifestyle
and not just come
in and out of it.
So I decided to sign up for my
first yoga teacher training.
And not just any yoga
teacher training.
I signed up for ashtanga, which
is the hardest form of yoga
you can possibly do.
And in that 30 days, I
completely changed my life.
I had visions.
I felt so connected.
I saw my purpose.
I saw me making a difference
in people's lives.
I didn't know how.
I didn't know I would be
doing what I'm doing today.
But I knew that I was going to
be doing something great just
using my life and my voice.
And in that moment, I made a
commitment to do yoga daily.
And from there, I ended up
finding this agency called
Sports and Lifestyle Unlimited.
And I was like, I want
to get into this agency,
but I haven't done any work.
I was like, I want to start
modeling because I was injured,
I couldn't run anymore.
So there was this--
Nike had a ad, and they
were doing this audition.
I was like, oh, I would
love to be a Nike athlete.
I would love to run.
And so I went out for
it, and they were like,
oh, yeah, you're great, you're
perfect, you're a perfect fit.
I was like, you know,
I went out before,
and I heard that before,
and I didn't get picked,
so I wonder why.
And they're like, I don't know,
let me see your audition sheet.
They looked.
They're like, oh, that's why.
I was like, why?
They're like, because
you have a size 10 foot.
I'm like, what?
I mean, I'm 5' 11".
I'm supposed to
have a [INAUDIBLE]..
They're like, no, but our
sample size is size seven.
I was like, hmm, let
me see that shoe.
I grabbed the shoe,
pulled the insole out,
and stuffed my size 10
foot into a size 7 shoe.
And I was like, you
know what, I can fit in.
I can-- they're like,
all right, you're hired.
And I worked so many jobs.
I worked for Reebok, for
Nike, for Asics, [INAUDIBLE]
Roadrunner, job after job.
And that's how I moved to LA.
So long story short,
I actually end up
injuring myself
wearing tight shoes,
and I got a big
lump behind my knee
from running in a tight shoe.
And my career had grown
so much that companies
start buying the
shoe to fit my foot
and not so much worrying
about the sample size.
And so that's how I started
my career of fitness modeling.
And so that went very well.
I moved to LA.
And as a yoga
instructor, I realized
that it was more than just
being fit in your body.
It was also in your mind.
So I signed up for my first
life coaching certification,
and I became a life coach.
And that's how I started to
embody mental, spiritual,
and physical fitness.
And what I do today is I'm
a holistic health coach,
embodying, taking those things
I learned from yoga, meditation,
and really meeting
people where they are
and helping them live
a healthy lifestyle.
>> Beautiful.
Tell me a little bit
about your yoga journey.
So after that first
ashtanga teacher training--
and I've done ashtanga, and
it's like, this isn't yoga,
this is torture.
>> [LAUGHS] It is.
>> But I liked it.
I practiced it a lot at a
point in time in my life.
It was a very
challenging form of yoga.
After that teacher
training, tell me
about your yoga trajectory.
Did you keep studying
more yoga, more people?
I mean, I think you've done
200 hours of teacher training
or something?
>> 500.
>> 500, OK.
Tell me about how that
kept stacking for you,
how more yoga led to more yoga.
And not so much from the
modeling perspective,
but what that started to
open up in your life in terms
of helping people uncover their
purpose, and live their dreams,
and how your commitment
to that focus and yoga--
which is union, and
oneness, and love--
helped you help inspire
more people to do the same.
>> Well, that one month of
intense yoga really helped me
realize how important
self-care is.
And how important it is--
I'd always try to
take care of others.
I was a team player.
And what made me a good team
player is that I was always
looking out for other people,
like, how are they feeling?
Are they getting it?
Because once I
learned, I was always
into teaching and sharing
it with other people.
And so I was always
really mindful.
I was like a little mama.
They call me little
mama all the time
because I was making sure
people were getting their rest.
And so after that, I
started to post online
on this platform called
Instagram, because I was like,
OK, I know--
they had this challenge
called Grow So Beautiful,
and you post your
practice every day.
And I was like,
you know what, I'm
going to post my practice every
day so I, one, stay committed,
and I inspire other people
to practice more yoga.
And so I was practicing.
I was posting once a day.
And I start growing a following.
And people were like
doing the hashtag,
and they were posting with me.
I start holding
classes at the beach,
and people start coming
out to my classes.
And I was like, wow,
this is really amazing.
And I start, again,
getting my own sleep.
I started eating better.
Through that
transition, I started
eating more fruits and
vegetables, more plants,
really adopting a
plant-based lifestyle.
Meditation and yoga.
All that together was
making me a stronger person.
Every day, I felt
stronger and stronger.
Some of the things that I
experienced when I was younger,
I started to release and
let go through practicing
more and more yoga.
And it's like the more
yoga that I practiced,
the more I was able
to release the past
and step into my strength
as a person, as a teacher,
and as a leader.
And so the more that I
started to teach and lead,
the more people
that came around.
It was like, wow,
this is awesome.
What is it?
And I would just continue
to teach and teach.
And so eventually, my
platform grew on Instagram,
and I started to do these
once-a-month dinner parties.
And at the dinner parties, I
would do a five-course dinner,
and then I would promote my
yoga classes during the week.
And each month, they
got bigger and bigger.
And my yoga classes got
more and more popular.
And so eventually, people would
just come to me for advice.
Like, what am I supposed
to do when this happens?
What am I supposed to do?
And I would just
set up sessions.
I would do live coaching.
And just more than
anything, remind people,
take care of yourself.
A lot of people, just like
me, going hard at athletics,
so hard that I depleted myself,
and now I'm not able to do it.
Well, a lot of people
go hard at their career,
go hard at parenting.
And without taking
the care of yourself,
you really can't
take care of others.
So one of the biggest
things I teach
is self-love and self-care.
The more you take
care of yourself,
the more energy you're going
to have to pour into others.
Fill your cup and then serve
others from the overflow.
That's something one of my
favorite speakers always says.
She's Lisa Nichols.
She's just like, you're supposed
to serve from your saucer.
Otherwise, you become
depleted, and you
have to really,
really fill your cup.
So that was something
that I carried with me,
and I started to
teach people really
how to take these tools that
I've learned through yoga,
meditation,
affirmations, and take
it to use to build themselves
up so that when they get
that rejection, when they
suffer from a breakup, when they
suffer from loss in the
family, they're able to cope,
pick themselves up, and just
continue to live their purpose.
>> So beautiful.
I love that.
And what does it feel like
now, reflecting on your life,
and thinking back to this
young, enthusiastic, sometimes
25 pounds overweight
Koya growing up, and just
to think that now you're in
a heart-centered yogic path
to help open people's
hearts and minds,
and help them connect to
what's important in life?
What does it feel like
for you, reflecting back
on your upbringing, to
think that now that's
what you get to do?
>> I'm just humbled.
I feel so humbled that I
get to travel the world.
I've been to so many countries,
from Jamaica, to Bali,
to Thai--
all these different cultures I
get to experience, and things
that I get to do, and
I thought I wouldn't
get to do that unless I
had an Olympic gold medal,
or I was a famous
model or singer.
But here I am, just a
young girl from Tennessee
who decided to use her
voice and use her life
to make a difference.
And I just can't believe that
I get to work with celebrities.
I can't believe I get to
travel to these places.
I can't believe the
amount of impact
that I have now just because I
said yes to myself, and I said,
I am enough just as I am.
I don't have to
have a gold medal,
I don't have to be
famous to be great.
I can just be great,
and do good things,
and help people, as many people.
And first it started out
as a handful of people,
and it just grew and grew and
grew through social media,
and realizing that's a
platform to share my story,
and share the things that
I've learned that have helped
me live a healthier life.
And I'm just so
humbled that now, I
get to enjoy this life of
travel, and of sharing,
and of living a
heart-centered life,
and a very purposeful
life doing what I love.
>> So beautiful.
And how's it feel?
I mean, you mentioned
Lisa Nichols.
I've shared the stage
somewhat at Awesomeness Fest
with her a number of years
ago where I first met.
We were just actually in touch
with her team the other day.
But to me, women have to
overcome so much these days.
And then someone
growing up in the South
has to overcome even more.
How does it feel for you to
be a representation of women
globally, to be
able to show them
that you can live a life
full of love and abundance,
you can live a life doing
something that you are
passionate about, such as yoga.
And how do you
what message would
you have to women that are
watching this that sometimes
don't give themselves the
love, or the self-authority,
or the permission to do what
they're truly passionate about?
>> One big message that I would
give those women is no one can
love you better than you.
No one can love you
better than you.
So you have to love
yourself first and most,
and just know it's
not being selfish.
It is really giving yourself
what you need so you can really
take care of others.
A lot of us-- myself included--
I was a yes girl, always
overextending myself.
And then sometimes, you
end up resentful, like, oh,
why did I do this again?
But if you take
care of yourself,
you know how to create balance.
You know how to
create boundaries.
And so that self-love
is so important.
I feel like that's the
biggest thing lacking.
We're always looking outside
of ourself, like I did.
Well, how can I be great?
What do I need to be--
even though I did
those things, it
came from a place of
always looking to feel love
and accepted.
But through yoga, I learned
to love and accept myself
as I was.
The other way, I was like--
I mean, it was fun, but
I would get injured.
I would push too hard.
I would try too hard.
And with yoga, it gave me
this sense of self-acceptance.
I just accepted myself.
I remember I went
through a whole period
where I didn't
accept my hair, and I
felt like I wanted
it to be different.
But through yoga,
I was like, you
know what, it's
beautiful just as it is.
And you'll be amazed at how
much people, like, oh, yeah,
affirmations.
I love myself.
But you will be amazed how
saying those affirmations,
closing your eyes and feeling
those affirmations day
after day after day, they
really start to sink in.
Doing the mirror work,
looking at yourself
and saying these things,
it really does work.
And so I would just tell
these women, just do the work.
Take care of yourself,
love yourself,
and you will be amazed
at what comes out of it.
And I'm sure it will be a
stronger, more empowered woman,
because that's
what I experienced.
>> Beautiful.
What does a daily self-care
ritual look like for somebody?
Give me a day in
the life of someone
who's really looking
after themselves?
What's the first thing
they do when they wake up?
Is it check social media,
or is it go in the mirror
and say, you got this, honey?
And then what do they do?
Tell me a bit--
>> Well, I can definitely be a
little guilty of a social media
check here and there, but I feel
like on my most mindful days,
I wake up--
I like to wake up
and just sun gaze.
So if I wake up before
the sun, I usually
meditate and pray first thing,
first thing when I wake up.
If the sun is up before me, I
usually just gaze at the sun.
I love to sun gaze, and just
take in the energy of the sun.
It's very powerful.
If you haven't heard of
sun gazing, look it up.
It's real, it's a thing.
You get the energy from
your sun, and it is--
man, the first time
I did it was amazing,
and now I do it as
much as possible.
You really bring the energy in.
So sun gazing, meditation
in the morning,
breath work in the morning.
Prayer is so important.
So I do those things
in the morning.
And then moving on to
liquid, just getting water.
Water gives you energy.
And eating like a really
light breakfast, because we're
fasting when we
sleep, so we want
to break that fast
with water and liquid.
So water in the
morning, of course,
after six to eight hours sleep,
which I too sometimes don't do.
Sometimes I get four, or three.
But on my best days, I get six.
And sometimes, those
special days, I get eight.
But usually, with six, I
feel really good and vibrant.
With my lifestyle,
with what I eat,
I feel really great
and vibrant off six.
And then throughout the day,
just eating a plant-based diet
is so important.
Eating a lot of
fruits and vegetables,
because that's what's going to
give us that life force energy.
I don't eat a lot of dead
foods, things that really
don't serve my energetic being.
I eat a lot of living
foods, a lot of life.
And I think that's
really important.
And I think finding
some type of movement,
whether it be dance, or yoga,
or fitness training, whatever
you love to do find,
some way to move--
or playing with kids
outside in the park.
Whatever it is, find
something that you're
moving your body, because
we have this energy called
chi energy, and we have to move
our body so that we're alive.
Otherwise, we're
just sitting dead,
reaching for a cup
of coffee, and trying
to get this life through
eating, which really--
food is more fuel,
but we get energy
out of moving and breathing.
So moving and breathing
every single day.
Eating plant-based foods.
And just smiling at people.
I feel like this
oneness that we have,
this energy that we have
looking in someone else's eyes,
seeing their soul, seeing who
they truly are, that's life.
That's living.
>> Gorgeous.
What are some other
self-care rituals
that people can try or
integrate into their lives?
>> One thing that I love to do
when I get off of a plane is go
floating.
So there's this float tank in
Marina Del Rey called Pause,
and it's just like you're
pausing in your day.
You go in, they
have infrared sauna.
They have these float
pods where you're
in 500 pounds of Epsom
salt. Lights off.
The pod closes, and you're
pretty much in meditation
for an entire hour.
And during these pauses, I have
the best visions, and it's--
one hour's equivalent to
a full night of sleep.
So I think it's a great way to
relax your body, to destress.
All the salt really
infuses into your muscles.
I cannot wait to go.
Tonight I'm either going to
go to the jacuzzi or to Pause,
because it's really great.
And then jacuzzi is another
thing that I like to do.
Getting in the
whirlpool, swimming.
Water is so powerful
when it comes
to rehabilitation and healing.
I tell almost anyone.
If you're experiencing
any type of bodily injury,
and you can get into the
water, get into the water,
because it's like
being in the womb,
and you're able to
rehabilitate yourself.
So that's one thing that
I did during my injuries.
Every injury that
I recover from,
I use water to help me heal,
because it's a weightless way
to just get your
body back to 100%.
>> Beautiful.
Growing up and moving
through your life,
obviously dealing-- you talked
about dealing with past trauma.
Everyone's dealing
with trauma, right?
But one of the things that
happens as we grow up,
whether it's through
trauma or experiences--
and maybe you want
share a little bit
about that-- we start to
develop limiting beliefs
about ourselves and
about what's possible.
And those beliefs are things
that can suddenly hold us back
from achieving our greatness.
Can you speak to any
sort of beliefs or trauma
that you've had
to personally work
through that helped you
unlock more of your potential
because of the time you
spent working on that?
>> Yeah.
I think one of the things--
one of the reoccurring limiting
beliefs that I would have
is that I'm not good enough.
I'm not good enough.
I can't do this because
I don't have the skills
someone else has,
or the opportunities,
or things like that.
And that held me back a lot.
In growing up, every time
I overcame that feeling
and just did the work--
when I played basketball,
OK, I'm good enough.
I can do this.
Then I did well.
And track and field.
Once I said, I can
overcome this, I did.
In life, once I said, you know
what, I can make a difference,
I started to grow.
And even now, I love to sing.
But so many times I'm like,
well, I'm no Mariah Carey.
And so I always
held back because I
didn't feel like I was
the greatest singer,
but I love to sing,
and I love music.
And I think music
is a beautiful way
to spread love, and express.
And so next month, I'm actually
releasing my first single.
It's the theme song
for "Get Loved Up,"
and I cannot wait to
share it to the world.
And that was me
conquering my fear,
and not being like, I'm not
good enough, but saying,
you know what, I am good
enough, because I have a voice,
and I can use it.
And I think that same
confidence helped
me become the woman
that I am today,
just realizing that
as you are is perfect.
And you can just get
better and better,
but you are good
enough as you are.
That's the thing I had to keep
telling myself, my affirmation.
I am beautiful as I am.
I am worthy as I am.
I am enough.
Those affirmations really
helped me get through a lot,
and just realize--
And sometimes, especially being
a model, you're ridiculed.
You're too this, you're--
I remember when I was growing
up, it's you're too skinny.
And then I put on muscle, and
I went out to model again.
It was like, oh, you're too big.
And it's just like,
ugh, God, I can't.
You're too dark.
And then you go, you
need a darker one.
You're too light.
And it was always like, too
skinny, too dark, too big,
too fat, and just--
And it's like I had to
learn to love myself.
Because at first, I was always
trying to be just right,
and I realized I'll never
be exactly what everyone
wants me to be.
I just have to be comfortable
with myself in my own skin.
And when I learned that--
I remember I was trying to
get on the cover of "Oxygen
Magazine."
And you have to be a certain
weight, and a certain size,
and you have big boobs.
And people would ask me, are
you going to get a boob job?
I was like, no, I've
never ever fantasized
about having a boob job.
Some people do and that's their
thing, but I was like, no way.
I was like, I'm not
going to do that.
I'll do everything else.
I joined a fitness competition.
I won fitness model called
Model America, and all
these competitions, which I
never thought I'd be on stage,
but I did it because I
wanted this end result.
Long story short, didn't
make it on the cover.
It wasn't until two years later
when I finally embraced myself.
I used to wear these
long, elaborate wigs.
And I still love wigs for fun,
for costume, for character.
It's a lot of fun.
But at one point,
I realized I had
a drawer full of about 40 wigs.
And when I took them off,
I was like, ugh, my hair.
I did not love what
was underneath.
And the problem is not the wig.
The problem is not
loving what's underneath.
Or not loving myself without it.
So once I realized that, I
was just like, you know what?
I got to let this go.
I got to fall in
love with my hair.
So I went on YouTube.
I look at all these
natural hair tutorials,
and I learned how to do my hair.
Fell in love with my
hair, and it was great.
And then eventually decided
to lock my hair how it is now,
and it's like the best
thing I've ever done,
but it's my natural hair.
And though I will wear a
Afro wig or any type of wig
in the future, but it'll
be out of creating art,
and not because I don't
love the hair on my head.
So I just feel like learning to
love myself as I am has been--
and feel like that I'm worth
it has been a big reoccurring
theme in my life.
And I feel like anyone
that feels that they're not
good enough, or they're
not beautiful enough,
should just look in the mirror
and realize that we are all
unique and different
and beautiful,
and that's what makes
the world beautiful.
We're not supposed
to look alike.
We're not all
supposed to be alike.
We just have to really learn to
love and acceptance ourselves.
>> You couldn't have
said that better.
I love it.
Oh my God.
You're great at this.
So tell me about what
you're up to now,
what are you up to next,
and what's the future
for Koya Webb looks like?
>> So what's next is my
company Get Loved Up,
which our mantra is love
yourself, love others,
love the planet.
It's really about
self-love and self-care,
oneness, unity,
sharing with others,
and doing the best we
can to make the world
a better place, a
healthier place to live in.
And I'm expanding.
I just started doing
yoga teacher trainings
where I'm teaching the
yoga, the meditation,
the plant-based
nutrition, everything
you need to do to live
a healthy lifestyle.
And I'm certifying
other teachers.
So we're going to have
Get Loved Up instructors
all over the world,
spreading this love,
producing a lot of
online content for myself
and for other companies.
And my goal is just
to spread the love.
Have everyone getting loved
up in every single city.
I want to have a huge
Get Loved Up community.
And I want to just keep
spreading and sharing them
>> I love it.
I love it.
I love it, pardon the pun.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> So OK, final question now.
So we're back in
the backstage room.
I'm karate chopping you,
getting it pumped up.
Maybe doing your power move
or something, I don't know.
You're getting pumped to go out,
and outside there is the world.
All the broadcasters.
Everybody's there.
And you've got
one or two minutes
to share with them your message
for humanity about what it
might take to inspire them to
live a healthier, happier life,
to really truly tap
into the potential
that they have within them.
What would you share with them?
>> Ooh.
That's so good!
What would I share with them?
You are love.
And everyone wants to love and
be love at the end of the day.
There are going
to be challenges.
There are going to be
fears that come up.
But when we're
challenged, if we just
remember that those challenges
are meant to make us stronger.
Not to defeat us, but
to make us stronger.
And those fears are meant
to push us closer and closer
to love, not away from it.
But they happen-- just
like lifting weights,
they happen to strengthen us.
And if we can remember
that, I feel like we
can live in a healthier world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]